\input texinfo
@c -*- texinfo -*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename chilir.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@settitle ChilIR Reference Manual
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2023 Raven Hallsby@*

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License''.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title ChilIR Reference Manual
@subtitle Constructing Hardware in Lisp Intermediate Representation
@author Raven Hallsby

@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@c *********************************************************************
@node Top
@top ChilIR

This document describes ChilIR version @value{VERSION}, a hardware
construction language and simulator.  ChilIR is inspired by
@uref{https://github.com/chipsalliance/firrtl, FIRRTL} and
@uref{https://circt.llvm.org/, CIRCT}.

@menu
* Introduction::                What is ChilIR?
* Hardware Language::           ChilIR, the language.
* Optimization::                Optimizing and lowering ChilIR.
* Code Generation::             Generating other IR HDLs.
* Contributing::                You can help too!
@end menu

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@cindex purpose
ChilIR is intended to be a intermediate language for hardware design,
similar to @uref{https://github.com/chipsalliance/firrtl, FIRRTL} or
@uref{https://circt.llvm.org/, CIRCT}.

@node Hardware Language
@chapter Hardware Language

@node Optimization
@chapter Optimization

@node Code Generation
@chapter Code Generation

@node Contributing
@chapter Contributing
@cindex documentation

Chilir is documented using the Texinfo system.

@menu
* Style Guidelines::            Making all code look the same.
* Submitting Patches::          Sharing your work & improvements.
* Writing Documentation::       Improving & Writing documentation.
@end menu

@node Style Guidelines
@section Style Guidelines
This project uses
@uref{https://google.github.io/styleguide/lispguide.xml, Google's Common
Lisp style guide} as its guideline.  This document is freely available
online and contains, what I believe, are a good set of default style
points. Please read this document before submitting your changes to
ensure all of your modifications meet this style guide.  If your changes
have a good reason not to follow these guidelines, make sure you
document @emph{why} with appropriate comments.

@node Submitting Patches
@section Submitting Patches
When writing documentation, please use gender-neutral wording when
referring to people, such as
@uref{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singular_they, singular
``they''@comma{} ``their''@comma{} ``them''}, and so forth.

@quotation Heads Up
Please be sure to test your code with multiple Common Lisp
implementations before submitting your changes!  ChilIR is written using
ANSI-compliant Common Lisp, so any conforming implementation should
work.  ChilIR is currently tested with @uref{https://www.sbcl.org/,
SBCL} and @uref{https://ccl.clozure.com/, CCL}.
@end quotation

@node Writing Documentation
@section Writing Documentation

To render documentation, you must first make sure that you ran both
@command{./bootstrap} and @command{./configure} in your source tree.
After that you can run one of the following commands:

@itemize
@item @samp{make info} to compile the Info manual.
      You can check it with @command{info doc/chilir.info}.
@item @samp{make doc/chilir.info} to compile the Info manual.
      You can check it with @command{info doc/chilir.info}.
@item @samp{make html} to compile the HTML version.
      You can point your browser to the relevant file in the
      @file{doc/chilir.html} directory.
@item @samp{make doc/chilir.html} to compile the HTML version.
      You can point your browser to the relevant file in the
      @file{doc/chilir.html} directory.
@end itemize

@bye

@c Local Variables:
@c ispell-local-dictionary: "american";
@c End:
